Azure Arc-enabled servers Private Link integration (#1044)
microsoft/azure_arc: docs/azure_arc_jumpstart/azure_arc_servers/day2/arc_privatelink/_index.md

---
type: docs
title: "Azure Private Link"
linkTitle: "Azure Private Link"
weight: 11
description: >
---

## Use Azure Private Link to securely connect networks to Azure Arc

The following README will guide you on how to use [Azure Private Link](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/private-link/private-link-overview) to securely connect from an Azure Arc-enabled server to Azure using a VPN. [This feature](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-arc/servers/private-link-security) allows you to connect privately to Azure Arc without opening up public network access but rather using private endpoints over a VPN or ExpressRoute connection, ensuring that all traffic is being sent to Azure privately.

> In this guide, you will emulate a hybrid environment connected to Azure over a VPN with hybrid resources that will be Arc-enabled, and Azure Private Link Scope will be used to connect over a private connection. To complete this process you deploy a single ARM template that will:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this guide, you will emulate a hybrid environment connected to Azure over a VPN with hybrid resources that will be Azure Arc-enabled, and Azure Private Link Scope will be used to connect over a private connection. To complete this process you deploy a single ARM template that will:
```

- Create two separate resource groups:

>   - "On-premises" resource group: will simulate a private on-premises environment with a Windows virtual machine. This VM will not have a public IP address assigned to it so [Azure Bastion](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/bastion/bastion-overview) is deployed to have administrative access to the operating system. The Windows virtual machine is an Azure Arc-enabled server by installing the Azure Arc-connected machine agent using Azure Private Link.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - "On-premises" resource group will contain resources that simulate a private on-premises environment with a Windows virtual machine. This VM will not have a public IP address assigned to it so [Azure Bastion](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/bastion/bastion-overview) is deployed to have administrative access to the operating system. The Windows virtual machine is an Azure Arc-enabled server by installing the Azure Arc connected machine agent using Azure Private Link.
```

>   - "Azure" resource group: in this resource group, you will have the Azure Arc-enabled server and its Private Link Scope.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - "Azure" resource group will contain the Azure Arc-enabled server and its Private Link Scope.
```

- Both resource groups have their own virtual networks and address spaces, and they are connected via Azure VPN gateways to set up a hybrid private connection.

  ![Deployment Overview](./01.png)

  > **NOTE: It is not expected for an Azure VM to be projected as an Azure Arc-enabled server. The below scenario is unsupported and should ONLY be used for demo and testing purposes.**

>   > **NOTE: The below scenario assumes the on-premises VM has outbound internet connectivity for the deployment of the Azure Arc connected machine agent, for internet disconnected environments you will need to adjust the automation to retrieve the agent's software from locally accessible storage**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  > **NOTE: The below scenario assumes the on-premises VM has outbound internet connectivity for the deployment of the Azure Arc connected machine agent. For internet disconnected environments you will need to adjust the automation to retrieve the agent's software from locally accessible storage**
```
